# Precise-Diagnosis-of-Parksinsons-Disease
A Regression approach for the automated detection of the Parkinson's Disease based on an Ensemble of Neural Networks.
Note that this is a Work in Progress.


## Background
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is one of the most ubiquitous progressive and chronic neurodegenerative disarrays caused due to the deterioration of substantia nigra, a collection of predominant nerve cells which operate with neurotransmitters responsible for regulating and coordinating muscle cells involved in a myriad of body movements. Due to the impairment of such cells, the production of dopamine is critically ceased, resulting in an unbalanced aggregation of the alpha-synuclein protein in the glial cells, neurons, and nerve fibers, therefore, impacting the quality of life as social interactions become more challenging and further depreciate the financial state of the patient with an enormous expense for incremental medical healthcare costs. Currently, there is no cure for PD and its primary cause remains a mystery albeit a minor percentage can be attributed to an amalgamation of researched genetic influences and environmental factors such as fungicides, herbicides, and toxins. According to a study conducted in 2016, the number of individuals associated with PD reached around 6.1 million, compared to 2.5 million in 1990, and instigated well over 3.1 million deaths, revealing a massive surge in the prevalence worldwide as its extended nature and the demographics affected, especially the late 50s and onwards, are poised to substantially intensify and exasperate the burden of Parkinson’s disease in the future.

## Objective
The primary incentive of this paper is to introduce an automated PD diagnosis framework that incorporates several motor features such as acoustic speech, rest tremors, clinical characteristics, bradykinesia, and hypokinesia from patients diagnosed with PD, healthy controls (HC), and patients with RBD. Many healthcare systems have adopted various rudimentary Machine Learning (ML) techniques to accurately classify PD. However, contrary to popular belief, there are multitudinous advantages that Neural Networks possess over other prevalent ML algorithms such as examining data with a logical structure parallel to how humans comprehend, flexibility, the ability to make self-adjustments, and robust generalization with complex non-linear, and high-dimensional data. 

## Methodology
The primary initiative of this paper is to develop a robust intelligence system for the diagnosis of PD by means of multifarious Neural Networks based on the classes of ensemble methods. Each network is devised for the bootstrap aggregation and stacked generalization techniques, while a forward-stage boosting algorithm is applied for boosting system for comparative analysis. All samples of data are amalgamated with a gaussian synthetic sampling technique to elevate the scope of the sample followed by processing using an attribute selection procedure incorporating an estimator model for computing the feature importance. The designated significant ranking attributes are selected for the regression analysis of the total Parkinson’s scale, or Total-UPDRS, in the aforementioned models, and the universal generalizability of the standalone models as well as their involvement in the ensemble approach are dissected and assessed to evaluate the most effective predictive model or approach with minimum discrepancies for the diagnosis of PD. 
